---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #57"
description: "Three Interesting Things for W/C 2023-10-01 | The Ascending Middle Class, Farming Metal from Plants, and the Condorcet Jury Theorem"
date: 2023-10-02 16:56:43 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
image: /assets/images/substack/137597735-social.webp
---

1.  **The Ascending Middle Class** : Contrary to the common narrative that the middle class in the U.S. is shrinking due to worsening financial conditions, data suggests otherwise. A graph reveals that the middle class is actually becoming richer, thus moving into higher income brackets. This perspective offers a nuanced take on economic mobility and challenges traditional viewpoints on class structure in America. Learn more about this eye-opening data [here](https://x.com/johanknorberg/status/1704832333998612810).
2.  **Farming Metal from Plants** : Could plants be the future of metal extraction? A groundbreaking initiative proposes using plants to absorb metal from the soil, which can then be harvested for industrial use. This innovative approach not only offers a more sustainable alternative to traditional mining but also has the potential to alleviate some aspects of climate breakdown. Dig into the fascinating details [here](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/apr/15/farm-metal-from-plants-life-on-earth-climate-breakdown).
3.  **The Wisdom of Crowds - Condorcet's Jury Theorem** : Ever heard that two heads are better than one? The Condorcet Jury Theorem gives this saying mathematical backing. If you have a group of people with a better than even chance of making a correct decision on a question with two possible answers, the probability that the majority will be correct approaches 100% as the group size increases. This theorem named after the Marquis de Condorcet justifies several of our institutions, such as juries and democratic elections, however it’s not without its critics. [Link](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet's_jury_theorem)

#### This newsletter is brought to you by DeepDive

Amplify your performance and client satisfaction with DeepDive - the comprehensive SaaS analytics solution for agencies. Seamlessly aggregate all of your clients' web and marketing analytics, unearth deep insights, and deliver AI-powered, white-labeled presentations instantly.

!

[https://trydeepdive.com](https://trydeepdive.com?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=newsletter)