---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #34"
description: "Three Interesting Things for W/C 2023-04-09"
date: 2023-04-11 19:00:53 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
---

1. This article discusses the potential revival of airships for cargo transportation, as they were rendered obsolete by airplanes in the passenger market. The article suggests that airships could find a place in the freight market, which is less sensitive to speed. The physics of airships are seductive, as their performance is proportional to volume divided by area, meaning larger airships have better performance. To be effective, cargo airships would need to be the largest flying objects ever created.The market for cargo airships could be massive if they can match the economic performance of trucks. Most cargo is transported via trucks, which are neither the fastest nor the cheapest mode of transport, but provide a great value proposition. The international market is different, with water transportation claiming the majority of both tonnage and value. If airships could provide faster delivery than ships at a lower cost than air freight, they could potentially capture a significant share of the market.
[
 !Eli Dourado

Cargo airships could be big

A lot of people think that the Zeppelin era ended merely because the Hindenburg erupted into flames in front of newsreel cameras, killing 35 of the 97 people on board in the inferno. While the 1937 accident certainly didn’t help, the writing was already on the wall for passenger airship service. In the late 1930s, airplanes were finally getting good. The…

Read more

3 years ago · 55 likes · Eli Dourado
](https://www.elidourado.com/p/cargo-airships?utm_source=substack&utm_campaign=post_embed&utm_medium=web)
2. &nbsp;School voucher schemes are controversial. Critics say they promote inequality, and proponents say they improve results across the board. This study shows that the massive scale-up of a Florida private school choice program (AKA School Voucher Scheme) affected public school students’ outcomes. Program expansion modestly benefited students (through higher standardized test scores and lower absenteeism and suspension rates) attending public schools closer to more pre-program private school options. Effects are particularly pronounced for lower-income students, but results are positive for more affluent students as well. Local and district-wide private school competition are both independently related to student outcomes.The full study can be found here: https://docs.iza.org/dp14342.pdf 
3. Here's some uplifting news you might have missed: Over the last 25 years, there has been a remarkable reduction in child poverty in the United States. In 1993, over 25% of children were living in families below the poverty line. Fast forward 26 years, and that figure has dropped to around 10%. This 59% decrease in child poverty is unparalleled in the history of poverty alleviation efforts in the United States.https://www.childtrends.org/publications/lessons-from-a-historic-decline-in-child-poverty

#### This newsletter is brought to you by Deep Dive Data.

Unlock the potential of your data with Deep Dive Data. We're a cost-effective subscription-based data analysis agency specializing in turning complex data into actionable insights. Our experts offer customized solutions, including data visualization, modeling, and predictive analytics. Whether you're a large or small business, we can help you make informed decisions and drive growth. [Contact us today](https://deepdivedata.agency/) to learn more.

!

[https://deepdivedata.agency/](https://deepdivedata.agency/)