---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #69"
description: "Three Interesting Things for W/C 2023-12-31 | The Cultural Power of Elite Immigrants, The End of DEI and Woke Capture, Olivine Weathering as a Climate Solution"
date: 2024-01-01 20:11:05 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
---

1.  **The Cultural Power of Elite Immigrants: Beyond Economics** Kicking this issue off with my favourite article of 2023 by , this insightful piece delves into the extensive impact of elite migration. It examines various groups, including Prussian Huguenots, Forty-Eighters, Port Jews, and northern Englishmen, highlighting how their influence extends well beyond mere economic contributions. On a personal note, one of my ancestors was a Forty Eighter migrant, and had [quite an interesting history himself](https://wilhelmachilles.wordpress.com/vor-und-wa%cc%88hrend-der-revolution-1848/) [pop this in a translating tool]. These revolutionaries, much like today's high-skilled workers, played a pivotal role in shaping cultural and political landscapes. [Discover the full scope of their influence](https://www.cremieux.xyz/p/the-cultural-power-of-high-skilled?r=7n4bs&utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=web)

1.  **The End of DEI and 'Woke' Capture: A Jewish Perspective**   
An engaging analysis from Jewish author , this article scrutinizes the current state and potential trajectory of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives. It suggests that well-intentioned ideologies, when based on oversimplified notions of power dynamics, can inadvertently mirror the flawed logic of antisemitic conspiracy theories. The piece provides a nuanced critique of 'woke' culture, particularly in corporate and academic environments, and invites readers to ponder the complex and sometimes unintended consequences of these societal shifts. [Explore this critical perspective](https://www.thefp.com/p/end-dei-woke-capture?r=7n4bs&utm_medium=ios&utm_campaign=post)

1.  **Olivine Weathering as a Climate Solution**   
This article introduces olivine weathering as a groundbreaking approach to mitigating climate change. Olivine, a widely available mineral, shows promise in capturing atmospheric carbon dioxide when weathered. The potential is immense: it's estimated that olivine weathering could sequester billions of tonnes of CO2, offering a more scalable and effective solution compared to traditional methods like planting trees. The piece delves into the science and practicality of this method, weighing its potential against other climate change strategies. [Learn about the potential of olivine weathering](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/olivine-weathering/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email) and make sure to check out for more interesting content.

#### **Revolutionise Your Professional Expertise with neuralvault**

Whether you're a solicitor, fashion aficionado, art appraiser, investor, or crowdfunding campaign organiser, our advanced GPT tools provide unrivalled insights and efficiency. Embrace transformative AI technology - presently offering complimentary access to all models. Check out [https://neuralvault.xyz](https://HTTPS://neuralvault.xyz) and transform your professional approach today.