---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #119"
description: "Emergency Preparedness, Fitness Insights, Economic Reform | Three Interesting Things for W/C 2024-12-08"
date: 2024-12-15 23:29:34 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
image: /assets/images/substack/153179510-social.webp
---

### **** _ **If Crisis or War Comes** _ **: Sweden’s Emergency Handbook**

The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency’s handbook _“If Crisis or War Comes”_ is a must-read for anyone interested in disaster preparedness. It covers everything from stockpiling essentials like food and water to responding to misinformation and terror attacks. The guide also explains Sweden’s civil defence strategies and the role of public shelters. A valuable resource for building resilience in uncertain times.

[Read here](https://www.jonkoping.se/download/18.6a087b4c169dcff8c903056e/1556627549015/Engelska.pdf)

### ** Fitness and Health Guide by Dr. Rhonda Patrick**

Dr. Rhonda Patrick’s _“How to Train Guide”_ is a treasure trove for fitness enthusiasts. From detailed training programs tailored to all levels to evidence-based supplementation advice, her insights bridge the latest scientific research and practical health strategies. Whether you’re improving endurance, increasing muscle mass, or focusing on recovery, Dr. Patrick’s practical expertise is extremely helpful and to the point. This is the best no-nonsense, concise guide on the subject I’ve read.

[Explore now](http://howtotrainguide.com/)

### ** FairTax: A Bold Economic Vision for the USA**

The FairTax initiative was a proposal to replace all US federal income taxes with a consumption tax inclusive of a rebate, which promised transformative impacts on the US economy, including a projected 10% improvement to GDP, unemployment, and real incomes in five years. Backed by 80 economists, this plan would have shifted the taxation focus to consumption while addressing progressiveness, efficiency, justice, employment, wages, and investment incentives.

[Learn more here](https://govinfo.library.unt.edu/taxreformpanel/comments/_files/Economists_Open_Letter_to_President_and_Congress_supporting_The_FairTax.pdf)