---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #103"
description: "Managing Up, Regenerative Farming, Sex Differences in Attraction | Three Interesting Things for W/C 2024-08-18"
date: 2024-08-24 07:00:13 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
---

### ** Tips for Managing Up Effectively**

Managing up to executives needs a different approach. They’re busy, focused on big-picture results, and not involved in everyday details. Former Amazon VP Ethan Evans shares six key actions that can help you communicate more effectively with higher-ups, ensuring your ideas and updates get noticed and valued.

 [Learn more in this thread](https://x.com/EthanEvansVP/status/1826290178698440994)

### ** Regenerative Bivalve Farming in Portugal**

Portugal is leading the way with regenerative bivalve farming, which not only produces quality shellfish but also helps restore marine environments can capture carbon. This sustainable method supports the seabed and marine life, offering a new model for the production of animal protein that benefits the economy, our health, and the environment.

 [Read this startup's approach](https://oceano-fresco.pt/en/pages/porque-o-fazemos)

### ** Differences in Attraction Between Men and Women**

A recent study looks at how men and women differ in what they find attractive—like looks, intelligence, and personality—and how these preferences change as they get older. The study shows men value physical attractiveness more, especially in their 30s and 40s, while women increasingly value intelligence and emotional connection as they age. Compared to males, females place relatively more importance on the two “resource factors”, namely education and intelligence. Such results are in line with previous research findings supporting sex differences according to the predictions from parental investment theory.

 [Read the study to learn more](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8133465/)