---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #99"
description: "Wildfire Mitigation, London's Charm, Near Eastern Archaeology | Three Interesting Things for W/C 2024-07-21"
date: 2024-07-27 07:00:43 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
image: /assets/images/substack/147051948-social.webp
---

1.  **Grazing to Minimise Wildfire Risk**   
Grazing livestock, particularly large herbivores, can significantly reduce wildfire risk by consuming the dry vegetation that acts as fuel for these fires. The GrazeLIFE project in the Greater Côa Valley in northern Portugal demonstrates how grazing by free-roaming herds of horses and wild cattle can be a natural and low-impact way of controlling wildfires. This method not only lowers fire risk, and therefore carbon emissions, but also enhances biodiversity and creates mosaic landscapes that benefit various species. Learn more about this innovative approach [here](https://grazelife.com/blog/grazing-to-minimise-wildfire-risk).
2.  **The Greater London Project: Embracing London's Potential**   
Joe Hill and Sam Bowman present a compelling vision of how London can be even greater. This summary excellently captures the unique benefits of London, from its global appeal and rich cultural scene to its innovative spirit. Highlighting these strengths, they outline ambitious plans to address challenges like insufficient housing and crumbling infrastructure. Their proposals include expanding public transport, pedestrianising key areas like Oxford Street, implementing dynamic congestion charges, and embracing new technologies such as driverless trains and drone deliveries. Their optimism is rooted in the belief that good ideas and committed individuals can drive the city's growth. Read the full vision [here](https://substack.com/home/post/p-146722392).
3.  **Exploring the Tells of the Near East**   
Tells are mounds created by many generations of people living and rebuilding on the same spot, layer upon layer. There are tens of thousands of archaeological Tells in the Near East, discovered by satellite but never opened. These sites hold untapped historical treasures that could reshape our understanding of ancient civilisations. Learn more about this archaeological phenomenon [here](https://x.com/lefineder/status/1815801881203204374).