---
layout: post
title: "Interessant3 #74"
description: "Three Interesting Things for W/C 2024-01-28 | Wealth Strategies, Nature's Chemistry, Urban Development"
date: 2024-02-04 17:25:49 +0000
published: true
categories: newsletter
lang: en
image: /assets/images/substack/141368337-social.webp
---

Apologies for the tardiness on this issue. Going forward Interessant3 will be in your inboxes on Saturdays at 9AM GMT.

1.  **Path to Prosperity** Naval Ravikant's viral wisdom on accumulating wealth was so impactful it was turned into a book. His original 2018 Twitter thread is an enlightening read for the ambitious mind, but I think every child in the world should be taught these simple messages. One of my favourite quotes is:

> Ignore people playing status games. They gain status by attacking people playing wealth creation games.

[Explore Naval's viral 2018 thread here](https://x.com/naval/status/1002103360646823936?s=20).
2.  **Nature's Molecular Preference** Dive into the brilliance of Frank Westheimer's exploration of why life favours phosphates for vital molecules like DNA and RNA. His eloquent explanations speak to the elegance of nature's choices, offering a captivating glimpse into the foundational elements of life. [Unravel the chemistry](https://archives.evergreen.edu/webpages/curricular/2006-2007/m2o2006/seminar/westheimer.pdf).
3.  **New Zealand's Urban Revolution**   
The good people at have published a deep dive into New Zealand's innovative upzoning policy, which aims to reshape urban landscapes, addressing housing crises by increasing density and affordability. One interesting insight is the impact that the 2011 Christchurch earthquake had on house prices due to its destruction of property and the subsequent reduction in supply. Some argue that house prices are not a function of supply, but this real world example is evidence to the contrary. This pioneering Kiwi approach could serve as a model for sustainable urban development worldwide, offering insights into the future of city planning. [Learn about the urban shift](https://www.worksinprogress.news/p/upzoning-new-zealand?utm_source=post-email-title&publication_id=90387&post_id=141199532&utm_campaign=email-post-title&isFreemail=true&r=7n4bs&utm_medium=email).